README.md, before:

# hands-on-cyber-leadership
<img width="1311" height="432" alt="Screenshot 2025-09-04 at 10 38 22 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1cc08d49-7889-45ba-b862-4a629989af5b" />

## **Welcome to my Cybersecurity Portfolio** 
A hands-on showcase developed as part of the WiCys Google Cybersecurity Certificate Program, presented through the lens of a governance and risk-aware cybersecurity leader.

---

## 🎯 Why This Portfolio?
This portfolio showcases how I bridge technical execution with strategic leadership in cybersecurity. Each project demonstrates both the practical outcomes, scripts, audits, and implementations, as well as the strategic rationale behind them, making clear how the work ties to governance, risk management, and organizational priorities.

My approach is governance-driven and impact-focused: every task is framed by the principles of sound decision-making, prioritization, and accountability. The intent is to demonstrate not only technical capability, but also how effective cyber leadership translates execution into business value.

---

## 📋 What You'll Find
- ✅ Real-world security audits and compliance assessments
- ✅ Incident response and threat analysis scenarios
- ✅ Access control and network security implementations
- ✅ Python automation for security operations
- ✅ Strategic governance and risk management perspectives

---

## 📈 Portfolio Stats
- **Projects**: 6
- **Focus Areas**: Governance, Risk Management, Network Security, Incident Response
- **Frameworks**: NIST CSF, Least Privilege, SQL Security

---

## 🔍 Project Highlights

| Project Title | Description | Skills/Focus | Status |
|---------------|-------------|--------------|---------|
| [Internal Security Audit Compliance Assessment](https://github.com/MZWANGCYBER/risk-lens-audit)| Security audit based on NIST guidance | Risk, Governance, Audit | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Cyber Incident Analysis](https://github.com/MZWANGCYBER/blue-team-diary) | Network traffic analysis and incident response across DNS failures, DoS attacks, brute force attempts, and vulnerability assessments using NIST CSF | Traffic Analysis, NIST CSF, Incident Response, Network Hardening, Documentation, Attack Detection, Framework Implementation, Security Planning | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Linux Command Line Mastery](https://github.com/TheCyberLeader/linux-command-line-mastery) | Comprehensive showcase of Linux and SQL security operations including file permissions management, database query filtering, and security investigations | Linux, SQL, Bash, File Permissions, Access Control, Database Security, Incident Investigation | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Assets, Threats, and Vulnerabilities](https://github.com/TheCyberLeader/assets-threats-vulnerabilities/) | Risk assessment, threat modeling, and vulnerability management | NIST SP 800-30, PASTA Framework, Risk Quantification, Access Control Design, Incident Response | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Detection and Response](https://github.com/TheCyberLeader/detection-and-response) | Incident response and SOC analyst workflows across ransomware, phishing, and web security incidents using NIST IR Lifecycle and threat intelligence frameworks | Incident Response, Phishing Analysis, Alert Triage, Log Analysis, Threat Intelligence, NIST IR Lifecycle | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Vuln Scan Playbook](https://github.com/MZWANGCYBER/vuln-scan-playbook) | Vulnerability identification for small business scenario | Threat Assessment | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |


---

## 🛠️ Technical Skills Demonstrated
- **Frameworks**: NIST Cybersecurity Framework, Risk Management Framework
- **Tools**: Python, SQL, Linux, Network Analysis Tools
- **Practices**: Incident Response, Vulnerability Management, Access Control, Threat Intelligence
- **Leadership**: Governance Integration, Strategic Risk Communication, Compliance Mapping

---

[⬅️ **Back to Home Page**](https://github.com/TheCyberLeader)

---

Commit message:

Replace 'Vuln Scan Playbook' with 'Python Automation For Security'

README.md, after:

# hands-on-cyber-leadership
<img width="1311" height="432" alt="Screenshot 2025-09-04 at 10 38 22 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1cc08d49-7889-45ba-b862-4a629989af5b" />

## **Welcome to my Cybersecurity Portfolio** 
A hands-on showcase developed as part of the WiCys Google Cybersecurity Certificate Program, presented through the lens of a governance and risk-aware cybersecurity leader.

---

## 🎯 Why This Portfolio?
This portfolio showcases how I bridge technical execution with strategic leadership in cybersecurity. Each project demonstrates both the practical outcomes, scripts, audits, and implementations, as well as the strategic rationale behind them, making clear how the work ties to governance, risk management, and organizational priorities.

My approach is governance-driven and impact-focused: every task is framed by the principles of sound decision-making, prioritization, and accountability. The intent is to demonstrate not only technical capability, but also how effective cyber leadership translates execution into business value.

---

## 📋 What You'll Find
- ✅ Real-world security audits and compliance assessments
- ✅ Incident response and threat analysis scenarios
- ✅ Access control and network security implementations
- ✅ Python automation for security operations
- ✅ Strategic governance and risk management perspectives

---

## 📈 Portfolio Stats
- **Projects**: 6
- **Focus Areas**: Governance, Risk Management, Network Security, Incident Response
- **Frameworks**: NIST CSF, Least Privilege, SQL Security

---

## 🔍 Project Highlights

| Project Title | Description | Skills/Focus | Status |
|---------------|-------------|--------------|---------|
| [Internal Security Audit Compliance Assessment](https://github.com/MZWANGCYBER/risk-lens-audit)| Security audit based on NIST guidance | Risk, Governance, Audit | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Cyber Incident Analysis](https://github.com/MZWANGCYBER/blue-team-diary) | Network traffic analysis and incident response across DNS failures, DoS attacks, brute force attempts, and vulnerability assessments using NIST CSF | Traffic Analysis, NIST CSF, Incident Response, Network Hardening, Documentation, Attack Detection, Framework Implementation, Security Planning | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Linux Command Line Mastery](https://github.com/TheCyberLeader/linux-command-line-mastery) | Comprehensive showcase of Linux and SQL security operations including file permissions management, database query filtering, and security investigations | Linux, SQL, Bash, File Permissions, Access Control, Database Security, Incident Investigation | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Assets, Threats, and Vulnerabilities](https://github.com/TheCyberLeader/assets-threats-vulnerabilities/) | Risk assessment, threat modeling, and vulnerability management | NIST SP 800-30, PASTA Framework, Risk Quantification, Access Control Design, Incident Response | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Detection and Response](https://github.com/TheCyberLeader/detection-and-response) | Incident response and SOC analyst workflows across ransomware, phishing, and web security incidents using NIST IR Lifecycle and threat intelligence frameworks | Incident Response, Phishing Analysis, Alert Triage, Log Analysis, Threat Intelligence, NIST IR Lifecycle | ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |
| [Python Automation For Security](https://github.com/TheCyberLeader/python-automation-for-security) | Hands-on Python programming skills for automating security tasks, including file operations, log parsing, pattern matching with regular expressions, and algorithm development |Python 3, Debugging, Testing, Documentation| ![Complete](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Complete-success) |


---

## 🛠️ Technical Skills Demonstrated
- **Frameworks**: NIST Cybersecurity Framework, Risk Management Framework
- **Tools**: Python, SQL, Linux, Network Analysis Tools
- **Practices**: Incident Response, Vulnerability Management, Access Control, Threat Intelligence
- **Leadership**: Governance Integration, Strategic Risk Communication, Compliance Mapping

---

[⬅️ **Back to Home Page**](https://github.com/TheCyberLeader)

---
